Hello this is Kiril from dot com.
And welcome back to the course on testing and optimization in meditative for in today's tutorial we
will finish the topic of importing daughter into the trading platform and we will be talking about importing
third party data importing third party data implies that you get your data from a certain provider such
as a broker and you download it from their website and then you upload it to Metro.
For now unfortunately not all brokers provide their daughter and I'm not sure why that is the case.
Because if I were a broker I would definitely put out my metatrader 4 historical data onto the website
so people could download it and use it in their back tests.
But not all brokers do that.
However there are a few.
For example if it's a D and O and I think does it and maybe a couple more.
So if you go to Google and you look for something like FXE GMT for daughter then you'll be able to find
their page here which is this one.
And here they have a trailer for one minute door.
They do have an instruction on how to upload it but will will go through it today.
Here is a selection of Southern currency pairs which you can download as you can see a download at the
British pound.
Frank Australian dollar yen.
Let's get another one let's get you on Dalia's.
I just want to show you the size the size of these files isn't that great it's about 30 to 40 megabytes
and there is arccos.
So once you unzip them they look something like this.
And this is an example of American dollar Canadian dollar.
So if we go to our Metro platform now and we go to Chaar tools History Center and you open the American
dollar Canadian dollar currency pair if you go to one you'll see that it's empty right now.
And some thought it will be a request from the broker there it is.
But how do we import our downloaded data.
So now it's sort of clicking download we're going to do is we're going to go import in here you need
to find your file.
In my case it's created on this path.
So you select a file and originally more than likely this window will be blank so there won't be a preview
so just click OK and then do that procedure again click Import and then you'll see what I see now or
a preview of your file.
So if you click OK all of these records will be loaded into Ameritrade for and as you can see we have
1 minute timeframe bars all the way from 2005.
So that's great.
And that part is done.
But now we have a question how do we get all this data into the other timeframes how do we update the
15 minute timeframe.
If you go here.
It's empty that one hour time frame they're all empty right now.
And how do we use the 1 minute data to update this data because maybe we need that for testing.
As you can see here this is some data was requested from the server but it has nothing to do with our
one minute data over here.
So how do we do that.
Well there is a standard procedure and I'll show you how it's done right now.
So we're going to close that and you need to now go into a navigator and go into the scripts folder
.
And here you need to find the period converter.
This is a script that is pre-packaged with every minute trader for on the planet quotes puts it in Ameritrade
or for specifically for this purpose to be able to recalculate time frames and it is extremely simple
to use and I'll demonstrate that right now.
So if we open a chart the used dollar Canadian chart and we go to the one mean time frame here.
I'm just going to check the auto scroll and I'm going to zoom out.
You'll notice that if I click the home button we go all the way back to 2005 which is good which means
our data is being displayed in the terminal.
Now if we go to the five minute time frame on the other hand and we go click home the first we can go
is around September 14 or maybe more data will be loaded.
But this is not the data that we imported.
So let's go back to the M1 period and here what we wanted to do is we want to launch the script.
So not take and drag that period convert onto the chart before we go to the inputs make sure in the
common section you've got a lot of JLL imports.
And generally that up here you've got older trading allowed and also deal imports is important because
descript has a dependency has these three to deal elso just make sure that that box is checked.
And if you go to inputs here you need to select a multiplier.
So we're working with the one minute time frame and we want to calculate the 5 minute timeframe so we
need to put 5 in here.
So we're going to click OK.
If you look at your terminal window that's the one where you can see a balance sheet account history
if you go into the experts tab you'll see that it's got some messages here that the script was loaded
and that it's residents are a number of records.
So what we wanted to do now is we want to.
Once it's finished we want to right click and remove script and when that's done we need to close the
terminal and we need to open it again.
So basically restart the terminal so that it picks up this new file that has been created.
And now if we go to the five minute timeframe of this currency pair and we click home you'll see that
we're going all the way back to 2005 and we can also check that through the history center.
If we go double click on five and scroll down you see that were in 2005.
Seven hundred and sixteen thousand records just about or just over that.
So that's that's exactly how you convert daughter.
You can do that for any time Thurm just get a multiplier right to show and do 15 minutes or be a 15
.
Q want to do one hour I'll be a 60 and so on.
Those are pretty simple to calculate and just.
But the thing is you have to do it for all the time frames that you need in your back test that's done
.
And before we finish this tutorial I just wanted to show you an interesting thing.
If you go to file and you go open a folder here it is what you'll see is this is the dot a folder for
this terminal.
And if you go to history and then you select your server then you'll find all the files all the history
files of this terminal so if you ever need to delete some history in order to upload it or you just
want to be sure that the history you're upload importing or downloading from Medich quotes is there
is the right one you can always delete something and I'll show you an example.
So we know that we've just seen we have the five minute time frame data so close the terminal and I'm
going to go and I'm just going to read all of the U.S dollar CAD data.
So get rid of them.
No they're not here anymore.
So now if we launch the terminal you'll see that they used all Canadian chart is updating meaning that
it doesn't have data and we can also confirm that by going to the History Center DoubleClick and there's
nothing here this has just been loaded from a broker and so on.
So that's a very convenient way of cleaning your history.
You don't have to delete records from here one by one.
Just go into that folder and just get rid of them there.
So that's all for today.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and you found this information useful.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then Happy training